---
title: "A Robot-Object Unified Modeling Method for Deformable Object Manipulation in Constrained Environments"
state: selected
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-03-18-TMECH
excerpt: 'This paper is about integrating manipulating motions, object shapes, and environmental constraints into a singular physics-based deformation model, ensuring accurate computation of a unified robot-object state at each computational phase.'
date: 2024-03-18
venue: 'IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics (Q1, CAS-Top Journal, IF=6.4)'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1109/TMECH.2024.3371111'
citation: '<b>H. Deng</b>, F. Ahmad, J. Xiong and Z. Xia. (2024). &quot;A Robot-Object Unified Modeling Method for Deformable Object Manipulation in Constrained Environments.&quot; <i><b>IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics</b></i>, Early Access, doi: 10.1109/TMECH.2024.3371111.'
---

Deformable object manipulation (DOM) holds significant importance in a variety of robotic applications. However, due to the absence of computationally efficient and accurate models, manipulating such objects remains a challenge. This complexity arises from the intricate laws of deformation and the high dimensionality of shape states. While prevailing solutions address DOM primarily using explicit servo-control methods in a model-free manner for task-specific local shape attainment, these methods falter when confronting more complicated tasks that demand global model-based planning. In response, we present a unified modeling method for DOM planning within constrained environments. Our approach integrates manipulating motions, object shapes, and environmental constraints into a singular physics-based deformation model, ensuring accurate computation of a unified robot-object state at each computational phase. By harnessing the alternating direction method of multipliers-based parallel numerical recipe with a learning-based sim2real parameter estimation strategy, we achieve superior computational efficiency and modeling accuracy. The detailed numerical evaluations and sim-to-real experiments show that our model outperforms the existing methods on DOM tasks with an updating rate >25 FPS and a relative deformation error <10% . Furthermore, we demonstrate the practical utility of our model in planning a global manipulation task.